##Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project  

The goal of the cookbook is to provide solutions to common tasks and problems in analyzing data.

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.
You will be graded by your peers on a series of yes/no questions related to the project. You will be required to submit: 
1) A tidy data set as described below.
2) A link to a Github repository with your script for performing the analysis.
3) A code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md. 

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Here are the data for the project:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following.

1.  Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2.  Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3.  Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4.  Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5.  From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Below the most common commands/instructions we will use in this project:
General Instructions:
-  Sorting
-  Randomizing order
-  Converting between vector types - Numeric vectors, Character vectors, and Factors
-  Finding and removing duplicate records
-  Comparing vectors or factors with NA
-  Recoding data
-  Mapping vector values - Change all instances of value x to value y in a vector

Data Frames:
-  Renaming columns in a data frame
-  Adding and removing columns from a data frame
-  Reordering the columns in a data frame
-  Merging data frames
-  Comparing data frames - Search for duplicate or unique rows across multiple data frames.
-  Re-computing the levels of all factor columns in a data frame
